DNS client(Linux).
==================

I've written this DNS client to understand the internal workings of DNS potocol. As a client side implementation it was an easy protocol to work with. I've tried to implement many(if not all) RR(resource record) requests. You can use this client to study the DNS protocol or to test the configuration of DNS servers(BIND). 

<b>Reply generted by dnsCli for the A RR type at linuxpakistan.net</b>
Reply....
ID = -1, Flags = 8080, Number of questions = 1, Number of answer RRs = 1, Number of authority RRs = 2, Number of additional RRs = 2, 

Question/s....
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 1(A),  Class = 1(IN), 
Resource Record/s....
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 1(A),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 2408, Data-Length = 4, IP-ADDRESS = 74.52.152.2
Authority Record/s....
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 2(NS),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 3683, Data-Length = 18, Name-Server = ns1.alliedtm.com.
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 2(NS),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 3683, Data-Length = 6, Name-Server = ns2.alliedtm.com.
Additional Record/s....
ns1.alliedtm.com. Type = 1(A),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 73354, Data-Length = 4, IP-ADDRESS = 209.160.64.129
ns2. Type = 1(A),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 73354, Data-Length = 4, IP-ADDRESS = 209.160.67.11
<hr>

<b>Reply generted by dnsCli for the A RR type for authoritative record at linuxpakistan.net</b>
Reply....
ID = -1, Flags = 8080, Number of questions = 1, Number of answer RRs = 1, Number of authority RRs = 2, Number of additional RRs = 2, 

Question/s....
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 1(A),  Class = 1(IN), 
Resource Record/s....
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 1(A),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 2256, Data-Length = 4, IP-ADDRESS = 74.52.152.2
Authority Record/s....
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 2(NS),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 3531, Data-Length = 18, Name-Server = ns1.alliedtm.com.
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 2(NS),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 3531, Data-Length = 6, Name-Server = ns2.alliedtm.com.
Additional Record/s....
ns1.alliedtm.com. Type = 1(A),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 73202, Data-Length = 4, IP-ADDRESS = 209.160.64.129
ns2. Type = 1(A),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 73202, Data-Length = 4, IP-ADDRESS = 209.160.67.11
<hr>

<b>Reply generated by dnsCli for SOA RR type at linuxpakistan.net</b>
Reply....

ID = -1, Flags = 84, Number of questions = 1, Number of answer RRs = 1, Number of authority RRs = 2, Number of additional RRs = 2, 

Question/s....
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 6(SOA),  Class = 1(IN), 
Resource Record/s....
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 6(SOA),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 7200, Data-Length = 58, 
Domain        = ns1.alliedtm.com.
Email         = uppal@linux.net.pk.
Serial-Number = 2007040803
Refresh       = 43200
Retry         = 3600
Expire        = 604800
TTL           = 43200
Authority Record/s....
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 2(NS),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 7200, Data-Length = 2, Name-Server = ns1.alliedtm.com.
linuxpakistan.net. Type = 2(NS),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 7200, Data-Length = 6, Name-Server = ns2.alliedtm.com.
Additional Record/s....
ns1.alliedtm.com. Type = 1(A),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 38400, Data-Length = 4, IP-ADDRESS = 209.160.64.129
ns2. Type = 1(A),  Class = 1(IN),  TTL = 38400, Data-Length = 4, IP-ADDRESS = 209.160.67.11

<hr>
- The opcodes implemented in this version .
Query
IQUERY (Inverse Query)

- Opecodes to be implemented in the future versions .
Status
Notify
Update

- RR types implemented in this version .
A (Address)
NS (Name Server)
CNAME (Canonical Name)
HINFO (Host Information)
MX (Mail Exchange)
AXFR (Request for zone transfer)
ANY (All)
PTR (Pointer)
SOA (Start of authority)  New
TXT (Text string)  New

- RR types to be implemented in the future versions .
WKS (Well Known Services) 

DnsCli, command line options and arguments.

-To give the name of the DNS sever....
[ -s | -S | --server ] 
dnsCli -s202.10.10.1
dnsCli --server 202.10.10.1

-To give the name of the domain....
[ -d | -D | --domain] 
dnsCli -dlinux3.soni.pk
dnsCli --domain linux1.soni.pk

-To get the version number....
[ -V | --version ]

-To get help....
[ -h | -H | --help ]

-To give the ID number....
[ -i | -I | --id ] 
dnsCli -i1000
dnsCli --id 900

-To give the IP address for inverse query....
[ -p | -P | -* | --pointer | --ptr] 
dnsCli -p202.10.10.1
dnsCli -*202.10.10.1
-To give the RR type....
[ -t | -T | --type-of-record | --type | --tor ] 
dnsCli --type mx
dnsCli -ta
-To get the authoritative reply....
[ -a | -A | --authority ]
-To get more detail....
[ -v | --verbose ]
-To set the connection timeout....
[-c | -C ]
By default the timeout value is 5 seconds
==========================================

